i i want to stop caring i just feel like
if i start caring about someone
eventually i will make a little mistake
and i won't be calm until i resolve it
the thoughts will haunt me constantly
through the day
and i try to let them pass during the
day and feel them at night
i'm becoming better at dealing with them
it's just that
eventually the aggro will take all my hp
i'm just tired of overthinking
everything
so this is a great
post um let me
show you guys something real quick so i
think that this is i'm gonna give you
guys kind of a quick summary
of um
so we have a we have a video about this
on the dr case guides
in the anxiety module about thought
loops so i think this is like we're
going to kind of cover this real quick
okay
so there are a few issues here when you
guys
you start caring about someone and then
their opinion matters to you
and then you'll make a little mistake
and then your mind will enter a thought
loop
right like where you like you try to
push it away and it doesn't work
um and then like oh let me see if i can
find so this is good hold on
see nope yeah it's not going to be clear
here but
okay so if you guys have this problem
where you like start caring about
someone and then you make a little
mistake and then you're like
you have to fix it and like your anxiety
drives you right like you're anxious and
you're like oh i have to fix it like
what if they think this what if they
think this what if they think this
and then this is good so i try to let
them pass during the day and feel them
at night that's one step in the right
direction i'm becoming better at dealing
with them that's also fantastic
um it's just i'm just tired of
overthinking everything
absolutely man so then the question
becomes
what do we what do we do about this okay
so the first thing to understand is that
your the obsession of your thoughts has
to do with something called
raag which is like attachment or
attraction
and so gaining distance from your
thoughts is difficult but that's where
vairagya comes in so vairagi is the
process of developing detachment
and then like this is the key thing i
won't be calm until i resolve it
so i want you guys to think about this
so when i
start caring for someone and then i make
a mistake and then i think to myself i
won't be calm until i resolve it
what happens to my anxiety when i
resolve it
hmm
and what happens the next time
i make a mistake in the conversation
okay so this is important okay so this
is where
now we go to this so it's kind of hard
to
deduce here but i'm going to kind of
give you guys a quick spoiler
so sometimes we try to fight it that
doesn't work
and sometimes we feed it we give in to
the anxiety right we say oh
you want to do this like like do i need
to resolve it do i need to like make
sure that this is okay so like you bring
your anxieties to people
you resolve it and then your mind calms
and then all that you're doing is
actually feeding the beast of your
anxiety
and so the next time you make a mistake
or your mind perceives that you make a
mistake
that anxiety is actually hungry or it's
grown because you fed it
and then you get into these situations
like this person is where they like they
can't stop
thinking about it like i can't help
myself
and why is that it's because this thing
this anxiety used to be a puppy
and then they fed it once and it grew a
little bit
and then they entered another
relationship and they started caring
and then they were like oh my god i
messed up let me go apologize is
everything okay
i'm so sorry i did this are you thinking
about this did i hurt your feelings i'm
so sorry
and that's feeding it again right so
like it's decompressing your anxiety by
giving into it
and then it grows and it grows and it
grows and eventually your anxiety
becomes crippling
it's this like gigantic cerberus what
used to be a chihuahua is now this like
three-headed dog
that is hungry and like sure you can
like keep it at bay for a day
but at night it comes roaring back and
eventually it aggros on you and tears
you apart
apart with its three heads so what do
you do about it
you have to learn how to not give in to
your anxiety
and so recognize that you can become
addicted
to the coping mechanism of relieving
your anxiety
and the more you give in to that the
stronger the addiction becomes
and the more you become this insecure
puddle
of whatever that's constantly seeking
reassurance
from the people around you
and it's really staggering it's crazy
right but the things that we do to fix
our anxiety are actually the problems
so this is where the first thing to
understand is like recognize
what happens to your anxiety use your
mind
so when i seek reassurance what happens
to my anxiety does it actually get
better or does it get worse
what happens to it next time is it a
temporary solution or does it actually
weaken it
and so then the question is how do i how
do i get rid of my anxiety
what can i do so how did we get here how
did we grow the beast by feeding it
so how do you shrink your anxiety by
starving it
so the next time you feel anxiety there
are going to be some things that are
going to be overwhelming that you can't
do
but you will feel little anxieties
throughout the day right small comments
big comments
huge social mistake small social mistake
tolerate the social mistake notice how
much you want it
how much you want to give in you're like
oh my god like what do they think oh my
god what do they think i have to make
sure that they're not mad at me
i have to make sure that they're not mad
at me
and so notice that thing and be like oh
wow like there's a part of me that's
really desperate for reassurance
what does it feel like when i don't give
in to my desperation
it feels really bad okay what like
notice
all of the feelings that you can and the
more that you notice things
the more you create distance in the
conversation
in your mind the more you create
vairagya so this is important to
understand
if you're trying to overcome an emotion
you have to go meta with it you have to
move
in a la in an axis that's like
perpendicular
so if i'm like having difficulty in
someone like in a conversation with
someone
so let's say that someone comes into my
office and says to me
oh you just say that you like me because
you're my therapist
and or you're my psychiatrist and like
it's your job to like me
and then i could say no no no i really
do like you and they're like no no no
you really don't and then like how do i
fix that as a psychiatrist does anyone
know
how do i fix this what if i say like how
can i
ever express authentic appreciation how
do i convince that person
slap them pills you say they're right
nope yeah so this is what you say you
guys ready for it
you guys ready to level up your speech
skill
i'm having trouble explaining to you how
i authentically think that you're a good
person
i cannot figure out the words to signal
to you that i actually think you're a
good person
because what you're saying to me is like
an irrefutable argument
you tell like you look at the problem
and you rise above it
right you say like hey i don't know how
to convey to you that i actually do care
about you as a person i don't know how
to fix that problem
this is the problem that i see i do care
about you i don't know how to convince
that to you
i don't know how to convince you
right and then they're like hmm
yeah okay that's interesting then they
begin to see
they're like oh yeah you're right like
you can never convince me
and then like then we're in this
situation where like then how do i
how do i ever let you know because i can
never convince you and they're like okay
weird
and and it's weird but if you guys want
to watch this
watch the watch the um the video
the the interview we did with h june
like a week ago
or two weeks ago so when we were talking
with a june you guys will notice that in
the first half of the video
we were kind of stalling okay
and then if you guys watch that video
halfway through the video i do this
thing called going meta
and i like tell him hey man we're
stalling here
it's basically what i said and that's
how you move forward
so with your anxiety you can create
distance to it right
going back to anxiety like what do you
do you say like oh my god i feel
anxious and desperate and i feel like i
can't do anything
like i feel like i have to get this
reassurance from this person
notice that within yourself you'll
create distance from it the more you
create distance from it the more power
you'll get over it
okay questions chatars
yeah so i never learned going meta and
clinical psych it's a big problem
so i think that this is a it's kind of a
tricky issue but like
a lot of the things that we like you
know that i teach are not
founded in clinical psychology they're
actually founded from yoga
in the east so they like understood the
nature
of how the mind works
and so part of the reason that i think
that like we we take these coaches right
and we get like
outcomes that are not quite as good as
therapy but like in the same ballpark
and remains to be seen is because we
teach them some of these techniques that
i think are like really really valuable
but what most of clinical psychology
training is if you think about it
like if you get a phd for five years
how is your time spent right if you get
like
like it's like mostly theoretical so
like you'll do supervision and stuff
like that which is great
that's where all the real learning
happens but this is why like in medical
school you have four years of medical
school where you don't
like you learn a lot of theory and then
you do residency where you learn how to
be a doctor
um yeah
okay
so if you want to stop caring i'm i'm
with you completely
right so this is actually it's a little
bit click-baity if you think about it
i want to stop caring and i'd say great
it's not like when you when you see this
title you're like oh my god don't stop
caring
live there's so much to live for but
yeah i think you should learn how to
take distance
and if you won't be calm until you
resolve it you have to learn how to
tolerate that calmness because here's
the thing that i want you guys to
understand okay
the mind is designed to return to
equilibrium
it's it's a waiting game between you or
your anxiety
and the most important tool at your
disposal is patience
because i know this sounds crazy but if
you have like you know
if you have let's say
let's say you spilled some water on your
jeans
when you were 13 years old when you were
washing your hands
and then when you walk in out in the
hallway and people start laughing
that anxiety will not last until you're
70.
the feeling of shame will not persist in
your brain until you're 70 years old
it's just not how the mind works so the
mind is designed to return to
equilibrium
so it's just a waiting game where the
more patient you can be with it the
anxiety will naturally subside because
that's
literally what our brain is designed to
do i want you guys to really like
appreciate this is really cool if you
think about
epilepsy so epilepsy is when your
brain you know you're having seizure
right so there's like unreal
regulated electrical activity so how
does the unregulated electrical activity
stop
it's because there's a hard you know
circuit that will like
put the brakes on your brain and you
reset
so it's almost like a circuit breaker in
your brain where your brain and your
body have all of these reset mechanisms
and so you just have to wait for that
that anxiety to subside
the same is true of joy like you know
winning
first prize in my school writing contest
in the fifth grade does not make me
happy and satisfied for the rest of my
life
you know it's just you know losing that
game of dota
doesn't make you mauled for the rest of
your life it just doesn't you have to
keep on playing dota
to keep on getting balder and walder and
balder
so recognize that what you're doing is
just riding it out
you're surfing that wave and the wave
won't last forever
it's gonna crash it's the nature of the
brain it's the nature of the mind
so play the waiting game and every time
you wait it out
the cerberus shrinks loses a head now
it's a two-headed cerberus then it's a
one-headed cerberus
then it's a great dane then it's a
german shepherd
and then eventually all the way down to
like a
you know some kind of puppy
infant malting
you